# comp330---CPD

## Week One - Beginning 24th September
As always, the first week back uni is always very full on and requires a lot of work to be put in to make sure everything is set up correctly for the commencing study block, along with the introduction of the 3 new modules, there is a lot to take in. This week's challenge came from the comp220, with the 6502 assembly coding being brought to the table, this is completely unlike anything I've ever done before, so I feel I'll need to be very well versed to complete the coursework to a good standard. To counteract this challenge, I'll make sure to go over the tutorials that Ed has provided so that I know how the code should be constructed. 

## Week Two - Beginning 1st October
This week's challenge presented itself in the form of my new 330 game team, as with any new project, the setup of all of the different systems and applications that we'll be using takes a long time as all of the relevant team members and such needed to be added in, so that we can all collaborate and work as one. However, over the summer break I have seem to have forgotten how the majority of the tools, especially GitBash operates, and I had some serious trouble getting functions such as branches to work correctly. As this could cause some serious issues with getting work completed and correctly submitted later down the line, and making sure that everyone can get their individual work contributed to the project. To overcome this issue, I will go back over the relevant documentation to ensure for the software so that I can operate it competently and ensure that the project runs smoothly.  

## Week Three - Beginning 8th October
This week's challenge was the arrival of the first assignment deadline, the comp310 research journal, and once again this assignment was more of a last minute attempt than I'd previously planned for. As I have written about in all of my past CPD reports, I struggle with time management greatly as I underestimate the amount of work that different submissions will take to complete to the standard that I want to achieve, and this study block seems to be no different in that regard as I was so focused on the other, bigger, assignments that I completely forgot about the research journal and it's quality suffered as a consequence. To counteract this issue in the future, I will make better use of my time management techniques such as writing my deadlines out on a calendar, but this study block I'll make sure to move them to a more prominent place so that I'm constantly reminded what is due in, at what time, and how much of my time I should put towards it each week. 

## Week Four - Beginning 15th October
This week's challenge was one that I didn't expect to happen, it stems from the ethics form that is required for the COMP320 dissertation preparation, and as I wanted to get this out of the way as quickly as possible, I thought it would be best to get it done early on, so that I could make any important changes that needed to be addressed further down the line. However, when I came to fill it out, I had a lot of trouble understanding what was required of me, due to my lack of understanding of the more complicated health and safety/ethical practice processes. As a result, it took me a while to get it filled in to a level I deemed acceptable to let Rory look over, most of the sections was incorrectly filled in. And thus I had wasted a lot of time, filling in a form that was not satisfactory. To counteract this in future, I will make sure to ask for clarification when it comes to tasks such as this, rather than just struggling on my own, and then wasting my time, as this will save me time that I could put towards other projects. 

## Week Five - Beginning 22nd October
The challenge that presented itself to me this week was from the comp330 peer review session. Unlike many of the other peer reviews that I have taken part in throughout the course, this one took place 2 weeks prior to the hand in, rather than the usual 1 that I am used to. Due to this, my submission was of a lesser quality than I wanted, with only one of my Java applications being ready to show off, meaning the amount of feedback about my submission was greatly reduced. As result of this I'll have less guidance to follow to make sure that I fix all of the issues that are present in my work. To overcome this issue, I'll make sure to check when all of the peer review sessions for the study block are and then factor this in when I undertake working on my projects, so that they are at a presentable level in time.  

## Week Six - Beginning 29th October
As this week was studio practice, it was spent primarily working on the now decided team game idea. As me and Rich (The other BSc on the team) had been so busy with other assignments, we'd had fallen slightly behind on the development of the game, primarily the systems that were being implemented by the BA designers. And as the prototype had been created by only one of the BA's over the summer break, it was already quite developed as it was, so I felt very overwhelmed by the sheer volume and complexity of the systems that had been developed, and due to the lack of comments I was unsure of what did what. So it took me a while to work on any of my own tasks as I didn't want to break the BA's workflow. However, after a while they came to my aid to discuss what I wanted clearing as they could see I was struggling. To overcome this issue in the future, I will ask for clarification on other team mates work so that I can get on with my own tasks, as otherwise I will fall behind on my contributions, which could affect the quality of the final product. 

## Week Seven - Beginning 5th November
This week's issue seemed to stem completely from Friday this time around. As on Friday we had to separate presentations to make about some of my assignments, the first being the 330 CV & Portfolio, which was relatively easy as it was just presenting what we had created and taking questions about the creation process, I was well set up for this as I feel I am relatively good at presenting free hand and interacting with audience. However, I also had to present my proposal research for 320, this posed much more of an issue as I am still extremely poor at presenting on pre-set material, and having to remember figures and data to project back to my cohort who might be asking questions. This posses an issue at having poor presenting skill makes me look unprofessional when presenting my work, and also could affect my mark in future sessions, so it is imperative that this skill nailed down. To counteract this issue in future, I will put myself forward for more presenting whenever it comes up, and make sure to full revise my material before hand so that I have all the knowledge require to answer an difficult questions that may spring up. 

## Week Eight - Beginning 12th November
COMP310 was the cause of this week's issue, although I have the basis of the game all worked and created, I have found it hard to continue work on the game project. As I had fallen quite far behind on my project compared to the other members of my cohort, my drive to get all of my proposed features in the game was quite reduced. As well as the fact that the comp320 proposal is due 2 days afterwards, I felt very down on the fact that I will probably not get the project done to the level of complexity and quality that I want it to be. This could cause an issue in the future as I feel that my ability to get work done effectively could be affected by my lack of drive towards a project, due to my mindset about the task in hand. So to counteract this issue with future projects, I will make sure to utilise all of my other skills such as learning about the tools I will be using far ahead of the project starting so that I am well versed with them, so that I don't fall back into the mindset of that I can't complete the work competently. 

## Week Nine - Beginning 19th November
This week's issue stemmed from the team game, while we as a team, and me as singular person seem to be utilising development tools such as Trello and a physical task board quite effectively. However, there are some tasks that I undertake during the development process that I feel are too small to be put up on the boards, such as fixing bugs, and implementing small pieces of art into the game, however, after a P.O. meeting with Rich, I found that my contribution looked quite small when we looked at the Trello, which put me into the spotlight as not pulling my weight, even though my team stated that I get a lot of work done. As this could lead to issues such as my contribution to the project being marked down as result of me omitting my small contributions, I feel like it would be a good plan to include even the smallest contributions within the task boards so that I, and my team mates know exactly what I have been doing, and to make sure that my full contribution is being recorded. 

## Week Ten - Beginning 26th November 
This week was a week of deadlines, both the comp210 constrained development task, and the 320 proposal were due in at opposite ends of the week. Due to the fact that I had spent the majority of week 9 getting the comp310 task completed due to me falling behind on the task over the last few weeks, my available time to work on my proposal was cut quite short, even though it was worth a large majority of the marks for the 320 module, so it really demanded my full attention. Even though I had the majority of the proposal completed, the vast majority of the week was spent fixing the myriad of small issues and changes that were suggested to me by Rory when he saw it on Tuesday. And although these were issues that definitely needed fixing before the hand-in, I felt that my time could have been better spent further expanding on my existing work, as this would definitely improved my grade. To stop this issue arising in the future, I will send my work to my supervisors on a much more regular basis to ensure that any issues that arise can be fixed as I go along, rather than all at the end, as this will allow me more time to add to my work, and thus hopefully push my grade up. 

## Week Eleven - Beginning 3rd December 
Due to the fact that this week was the week after our biggest hand-ins, the majority of the week was spent purely catching up on the 330 game. And as I had been absent for about a week, progress on the game had been pretty great and had come quite a long way. This warranted a catch up session with the rest of the team before any work could start, so that I knew what I had to start work on. This meeting brought forward the need for me to utilise timelines during development of some of the features that I had been assigned with. This caused an issue as I have never used timelines before, and the team wanted all of the loose ends tied up before we went home for Christmas, so I had to spend some time researching how they operated so that I could confidently use them. And of course, this research time cut into my development time, meaning that I missed out on fulfilling more of my tasks due to the my lack of knowledge. Which could cause major issues in the future, as if I'm not entirely confident with the software or tools that I am using, it could mean I fail to deliver on deadlines for work. To overcome this in future, I will make sure to enquire with my team mates far in advance to ensure that if there are any features which require any specialist knowledge that are needing to be created in the future, I'll know then to research it and ensure that I am confident with using said features. 

## Week Twelve - Beginning 10th December
The final week of this study block was extremely quiet due to the fact that a large majority of the Games Academy had already started to leave to go home for Christmas. This raised an interesting issue that I have never encountered before, due to the fact that the scrum master had left early, and seemingly wasn't contactable, along with the lack of other members of our team leaving at the same time left me with a lack of direction of what issues to tackle, due to the fact that nearly all of the tasks on the board had been completed. This lead to me extremely unproductive during this time and mostly just working on my own personal projects, when in reality I should have been working on the game. In future, to prevent this issue from happening I'll make sure to ensure that their are tasks for any remaining team members when we are approaching the end of a study block, as this will prevent any members of the team remaining unproductive. 

# comp340---CPD

## Week One - Beginning 28th January
As I have found over the past couple years that I have been at Falmouth, the week after returning from Christmas is always a difficult one where I struggle to get a drive back for the collaborative game project. This is mostly due to a combination of things, such as the couple weeks prior to us actually starting that we have to return back to Uni early for things such as Vivas leaves me feeling slightly lazy due to there being little to do, and the lack of other team members being present always makes it a bit of a struggle to get back to work quickly and effectively. Also, due the effectiveness of the BA programmers, I was left slightly under tasked while they were away so I was left with very little that I could do the fact that I couldn't interpret the systems that they had created, this was an issue I had last term however it doesn't seemed to have stopped happening. To counter this issue in future, before I leave for Christmas or any kind of long period of time, I will confirm with the other team members what tasks and jobs I can do when I return, eve if they aren't present. This will give more things I can do on the game, and thus more drive to get these jobs completed, which should be easily observable within any of future projects that I am a part of as I will feel much more driven when I return to work on a project. 

## Week Two - Beginning 4th Febuary
This week's issue arose from an issue that I thought I had cured, but it seems that I have slipped back into, after going over my code for both my COMP360 and the game project, I discovered that I have reverted back to my old ways of barely if ever commenting my code, which came back to bite me after I was asked by a team member to explain what a some of my blueprint functions did, to which I was unable to answer them until I had examined them for a while. This kind of issue could cause a lot of problems down the road, especially within a professional position so it's best that I sort it now. To do this, before submitting or committing any changes that I make to any of my projects, I will make sure to comment any code that I have added, this will make it much easier for both myself and colleagues to understand my work. This should be a relatively easy plan as there are very few steps to counter this issue, and thus should be easily obtainable in a short time frame. 

## Week Three - Beginning 11th Febuary
This week's issue stemmed from the research journal that is due at the end of this week, as with last study block, I am still struggling with my time management skills when it comes to written assignments, especially when it comes to the research journals that we have been tasked with writing over the last few years. I have found that this is mostly due to the fact that they were mostly due around the time of other, larger assignments and the fact they were always weighted quite low, however due to the fact that it's a group assignment and the entire cohort is marked on the overall contribution, it is important that I do my part so that the rest of the group's marked isn't brought down. My plan to fix this issue in the future is to start anything research related a lot earlier by getting the bulk of the research written up in a single session, and then I can go back to it nearer the deadline so I can discuss my findings with my peers more effectively. This plan will be easy enough to see if it was effective in the future as I will find that the quality of my research projects and the discussions I have with my peers will be of a much higher quality. 

## Week Four - Beginning 18th Febuary
This week's problem stemmed from the comp360 artefact, due to the fact that I haven't used c++ for a large project in a long time and my data collection where I need to use my artefact is rapidly approaching I have discovered that not keeping my individual language skills up to scratch has seriously affected my ability to create well constructed programs in a timely manner. Meaning that I spend the majority of the time that should be used to write code, looking at documentation and looking for answers to problems that I should easily be able to overcome without the need to look them up. This kind of problem will definitely have a knock on effect in a professional context, where I could fall behind of a portion of a project that I should be working on, which could put my position in jeopardy, so it's imperative that I fix this issue very quickly. To counter this issue in the future, I will make sure to use sites such as PluralSite and CodeWars to keep my skills on languages that I feel my knowledge is lacking in, which will hopefully help my ability to create good programs, quicker in the future. To ensure that I get this issue solved quickly, I will start undertaking this plan as soon as possible, which will mean that this issue should be solved by the time I enter a professional position.  

## Week Five - Beginning  25th Febuary
This week's issue came from a problem that I have had for a while but I still haven't managed to fix after a number of years. The porting task peer review was early this week and I only discovered this the day before, and the actual hand in date of the task is months away so I haven't started any work on it yet so my contribution to the peer review was pretty weak and definitely not up to the standard I want. This issue could definitely lead to some issues in the future as I may have a work review that is only displayed on a calendar, and I may disregard it or not see it, so to help with this issue in the future, I will make sure to note down any peer or work reviews that will be happening along with any deadlines that I have to make, as this way it will be both much easier for me to remember when I have to get work done for, and decide what projects I should start first, which will also help with my my time management skills. To ensure that this problem is solved as soon as possible due to the repercussions that it could have, I will start to plan out any work reviews I have in my planner and make sure to get any work I need to do done before the due date. 

## Week Six - Beginning 4th March
Due to the fact that this week was the week before the show and tell week hand-in, it was basically a week of solid studio practice, which lead to the majority of my time being spent in the studio with the rest of the team, however as with both of the other game projects that I have taken part in over my time at Falmouth, I have found this week that again I am putting myself forward for a task, putting it up on the Trello/physical task board and then finding after working on the feature or task that the task has already been completed by another member of the team. And although I have made plans for this in the past, these don't seem to have helped me to fix this issue, even though I have put them into practice. I think the only way to fully fix this problem in the future is to voice exactly what I'm doing before I start doing it everyday, and that way all of my team members will know exactly what task I am doing, and thus hopefully there will be a lot less task overlap, which will mean that more of my work will be eligible to be submitted to the game project, as otherwise my development time will be wasted, so if I start doing this straight away, I should see a change by the time I leave university. 

## Week Seven - Beginning 11th March
As this week was the show and tell day, I had to present for my team in front of the largest crowd that I have ever been in front of. And as in the past with my presentations, I spent very little time preparing for it due to my overconfidence when it comes to my presentation skills, with the result being that I needed to constantly refer back to the notes on my phone, which didn't look very professional at all, and caused me to constantly lose my train of thought and stumble over my words. And although I can attribute some of this down to the pressure of talking to such a large audience, I think most of it was down to my lack of proper preparation. To counter this issue in future, I will make sure to properly prepare for any presentations that I need to make by going over the material till I can recite it by memory, as well as giving it a practice run in front of teammates or another party. I need to get this issue sorted as having the ability to present gripping and well performed presentations is very important in a professional context.  

## Week Eight - Beginning 18th March
This weeks issue stemmed from the professional practice report that is due next week, once again I had left this to the last minute as it was a written assignment, however as this assignment was different as it required me to contact industry professionals to give me advice about how to get into the job I want in the games industry. And although this would have been relatively easy due to the contacts that I had made on sites such as LinkedIn, I am struggling to get the report written in good time as my conflicted ideas of what I want to do in the future as I either want to do continue down the gamaes route or move over into the automotive field, and as I am unsure if I could do a report on persuing a job in cars, I put off writing the report until this week, and I am afraid it will be off quite poor quality due to the lack of time I have left myself with. So to help with this issue in the future I will make sure to ask for any advice with any assignemnts that I am unsure about a lot more in advance, and then I will hopefully be a lot more driven to write up my assignments in advance. 

## Week Nine - Beginning 25th March
The problem that came up this week was related to my research dissertation and artefact once again, however this time it was more related to the game that I was researching which was Street Fighter 5. Recently I had discovered that Capcom decided to remove the DirectInput support for the game, and unfortunately this change made the piece of software that I was going to use to convert the GameCube controllers inputs into DirectInput commands completely redundant and thus I will not be able to use this controller for my dissertation. In reality I should have found a way, or created a system to convert the inputs myself so that this issue didn't come up at all. So to help overcome this issue in the future I will make sure to research any integral parts of the software that I am using, and if they are in any jeopardy of being made obsolete or being removed I'll either avoid using them or make a work around of m own if it is viable. This will be extra useful in the future as in a professional context, using an out of date package or program in my work could lead to a lot of problems during the development process so it's imperative I fix this issue. 

## Week Ten - Beginning 1 April
This weeks issue came up during my data collection for my dissertation, due to the now relateively small amount of data that I now have to collect from each participant in my research project, I thought that it would take a relatively small amount of time to collect all of the data that I required, however I underestimated the amount of time that it would take for me to collect all of the 40 people, this was mostly due to the logistics that went with gathering the data rather than the actual data collection, with the biggest issue mostly being finding people who were around and had enough time, which was something that I did anticpate, but I didn't know it was going to be this difficult, especially in the Games Academy. Issues like this that I did anticpate, but underestimated definetely made my data collection run over the amount of time I expected which had a knock on effect on my other projects that are due soon as I was too preoccupied with collecting the data to start work on other things. To counter this issue in future, I will make sure to leave a lot more time for research projects that require the participation of human participants as I have found it takes a lot more time to undertake this kind of research. 

## Week Eleven - Beginning 8th April
The issue from last week of the study block was sprung up from the optimisation task that was due at the end of the week, and although I had started nice and early on this task when I came back, I had mostly forgotten about the task by the time that I was reminded that they hand-in was rapidly approaching, and thus the work that I handed in was definitely not up to the standard that I wanted. I have had this issue in the past but I still have't seemed to have fixed it and the plans that I have created haven't seemed to have worked. To counter this issue in the future, I will make sure to plan out my hand-ins much better by writing them out on a calendar, and then planning out my weeks by dividing them up task by task, which will allow me to work on all of my assignments equally and not fall behind on any of them. This plan will defientely help me in a professional context as it will allow me to keep a better eye on all of the tasks and projects that I'm working on. 

## Week Twelve - Beginning 29th April
This week was purely spent writing up the dissertation, which although went smoothly, I can appreciate that I should have started this process much earlier than this as I feel that I will have to work right up to the deadline to be able to get to the level of work that I want from this project, along with the amount of quality I want. This issue was due mostly to my poor time management skills, as well my overconfidence in my ability to be able to get a project written up quickly, without distraction. To address this issue in the future, I will make sure to start any large written project much earlier than I feel I need to, as this way it will ensure that I can get a decent amount of work done far in advance of the deadline, meaning that towards the end of the time available, I will have less work to do, and thus I'll be able to create a more quality project. 





